{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17640\viewh11740\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In his article Gamification \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 (2017)\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 , Dirk Basten argues that gamelike -elements can help motivate people to do menial boring tasks, in otherwise non-game scenarios. These scenarios might include things like: fulfilling your account information, or the rating system as seen on eBay. The idea behind it is to reward the user for doing some menial tasks. But how to reward the user, without 
\f1\i actually 
\f0\i0 rewarding the user?\
\
Usually gamification happens in the form of visual user feedback; progress bars, shiny colours, well placed UI elements --all of these are actual methods of confirming and rewarding the action the user just took. According to Mr. Basten however, gamification elements can become stale, meaning that in long term use the whole reward -system might have to be re-designed. The rewarding has to feel exciting and fresh, which puts a lot of designers into difficult spots. Mr. Basten ends the article saying that gamification isn't perfect solution as it is,  as its' success is depended on several design choices, but it still is a promising way to create a lot of sociotechnical systems.\
\
Personally, I take Mr. Bastens' side on this. A well designed system is so good, that you might not even necessarily notice it --whereas a badly designed system is something that always sticks out like a sore thumb. It's also understandable why this whole gamification thing stems out of the world of video games. Video games have since the beginning been about keeping the user satisfied and sitting in front of the screen, so it's only logical that the rest of the industry would loan these successful, well polished design elements to their own products. I also believe that in the future this is only going to get more frequent, since the effects of gamification are largely reported and known.\
\

\f1\i -Tuomas P\'f6yry and Elias Koivula }